now a ruptured femur so what you call it
a record yeah well I it's put into its
plan to know I've been told that when
you break your femur you're critically
injured I mean that's a very serious
injury right and here you are a
skateboarder we'll talk about that in a
minute but first of all the the crash
itself did you have any warning um
seconds before 10 seconds before I'd say
were you just taking off with this
happen no actually I was flying with
very good friend of mine good indeed
Kristin's one who had come from Iceland
and and had a spy license and we were
flying towards Squamish and in one of
the valleys that we were flying in there
were some clouds in the distance and you
know when you're flying in a small
Cessna plane you know it's quite unsafe
to be going through clouds in a valley
because you know your vision is very you
know blocked and you can't see what's
coming so going to made the decision to
turn around in the valley and we decided
to to go into a neighboring Valley and
I'd say the only real warning that I
sort of had was this unease in his kind
of spirit you know I really felt ya not
easing I'd spent three months with
granny he that's how long you stay was
here in Canada and you know when you
spend a lot of time with somebody you
know he gets no just I guess their
mannerisms and and yeah like before I
knew it he was saying we're going down
and there was sort of a tremor in the
plane and that's when I pretty much
closed my eyes and and hope for the best
I remember the plane now beginning to
sort of swoop down and that's when I
yeah just brace for impact and an impact
game mm-hmm did you lose consciousness
I did yeah when you came to did you
realize what had happened or were you a
little bit spaced out well my very good
friend Elliott and his girlfriend Leah
were also in the plane
and you know my first memory of of
waking up was Elliott there beside me
and and the very first thing I said to
Elliott was my seat belt you know my
seat belt get my seat belt off because
what had happened was the plane was at
almost like a 90-degree angle and leah
was behind me and and her weight would
have you know been on on my chest
because I was hanging in my seat belt
and you know she was you know we wanted
to get out of there she was you know was
life or death she was covered in diesel
and and obviously she's kind of
trampling on me and I don't blame her
she's you know it's your your and it's
chaos you know it's just she was trying
to get out and so what that was doing
was it was putting a lot of pressure on
my internal organs and then I actually
suffered some internal bleeding and so
my very first words to Elliott were you
know get my seatbelt off and I guess
subconscious that you know even though I
was I was knocked out I knew that the
first thing that needed to take place
was this pressure had to be relieved
yeah and did you know right away that
you'd severely damaged your leg No
so you tried to walk no what happened
was so you know after just I guess two
minutes or trying to get my seatbelt off
because it was sort of lodged I finally
got it off and and seeing them like then
it was had passed away
you could tell yeah Elliott at the time
said Dave just let's just get out of
here goodness breathing he's gonna be
okay you know but it definitely didn't
look very promising and and so I said
okay let's go and and then Ali I said
Dave look look at you like man and so
what had happened was when I was bracing
for impact stretching out my legs the
seat had dislodged and it actually
snapped my femur and what I was looking
at was was almost like a second knee
joint what had happened was my first leg
had folded underneath my seat and and to
my horror my my leg was actually you
know folded underneath the seat with my
body weight on it
but Elliott you know he was unhurt which
is a miracle complete miracle and he
pushed the seat up and I was able to
dislodge my my leg which was you know
tremendous amount of pain there and then
and then Elliott say you know get on my
shoulders Dave and Elliott carried me
man it was it was a I was tremendous
with what Elliott did on that day he
pulled me on his shoulders and me and
Elliot used to work out you know back in
those high school days when you're
trying to I guess get all buff and
impress the ladies and and I remembered
getting on the shoulders and him
slipping because it was it kind of
crashed beside a creek and there was
slippery rocks everywhere and and with
me on his back he was struggling you
know and I was kind of yelling at him
you know what come on man you can do
this you know I used to see working out
I used to benchpress 140 pounds kind of
encouraging him you know and and so we
on our way to go see where or go to
where leah was we actually sort of
slipped and at that time I actually
tried to stand on my leg and try to
brace myself and the leg just kind of
noodled and finally when we were able to
sit and I guess in a safe distance away
from the plane I guess that's kind of
when there's realness the the impact
really came in yeah you were airlifted
out of there
we were hours later how did how did they
find you well all planes give off a
signal Cessna planes because the battery
isn't as big as commercial airliners
gives off a signal I think it's
somewhere in between 15 and 20 minutes
every 15 20 minutes at this sentence a
signal of its location the reason why I
guess it takes so long in between is
because you know if you're very very far
away they'd rather have the signal for a
long period of time right every 20
minutes rather than if it were to go
every five minutes you know the battery
would only that so long and so they saw
our signal and but for whatever reason
they didn't
they didn't call search and rescue until
about 6:00 p.m. that day and I'm not
sure why but and so it did take around
five hours there five hours with this
serious injury you're bleeding your your
leg is shattered did you go into shock I
did yeah
actually just talking to Elliot the
other day we were talking about you know
the plane crash and he told me how he
was kind of just saying yeah I'm
everyone we moved from that embankment
to underneath the tree because it was
beginning to rain and I don't really
remember that very well and that must
have been because I was in such a state
of shock and it's such a I guess such a
state of just you know I was lost I was
it was a moment of terror you know